{
  "title": "Introducing Governance Committees",
  "content": "COMMITTEES\n\nHello community! This post will serve as a discussion thread to solve for one of\nthe biggest challenges faced by the Token House so far. The main idea is to\nreduce delegate overload by introducing a notion of “committees” which are\ntasked by the collective to focus on specific subsets of proposals.\n\nIf approved, this proposal will remain in effect for one season (~3\nmonths)—think of it as an experiment. This will allow for testing and reflection\non whether or not committees are beneficial to the governance process before\nmaking any decisions that are difficult to reverse.\n\n\nPROBLEMS TO SOLVE\n\nWe heard lots of feedback from community members and delegates throughout Season\n1. Committees attempt to solve the following problems:\n\n\n1. INFORMATION OVERLOAD FOR DELEGATES\n\nThere are currently a lot of proposals to be voted on by Token House delegates.\nEven for delegates that are very familiar with the context of these proposals\nand their applications, processing all these proposals is unsustainable.\nProviding feedback on proposal drafts and engaging on forum posts, while voting\non active proposals, is currently an unmanageable workload for many delegates.\n\n\n2. PURPOSE MISMATCH FOR DELEGATES\n\nDelegates have different areas of specialty. While the majority of proposals to\ndate have been related to DeFi, some delegates specialize in non-DeFi related\ntopics such as public goods, tooling, and L2 infrastructure. These delegates\ndon’t feel well-equipped to vote on DeFi proposals or aren’t interested in doing\nso.\n\n\nWHY COMMITTEES SHOULD SOLVE THESE PROBLEMS\n\nThis problem may be alleviated by segmenting the work of assessing proposals\namong smaller, focused groups (”committees”). These committees will primarily\nperform information filtering and synthesis so that delegates aren’t overloaded\nwith information. Delegates that specialize in a particular topic can defer to\nthe recommendation of relevant committees on topics outside their area of\nexpertise/interest.\n\n\nINTRODUCING COMMITTEES\n\nIn Season 2, we will experiment with a new proposal type: committee formation.\n\nCommittee formation proposals may only be submitted by delegates with >0.5% of\nvoting power and will be accepted only for Voting Cycle #5, requiring submission\nbefore 7p GMT on Aug 25 in order to be included in Voting Cycle #5. There is no\nrequirement for all committee members to have >0.5% of votable supply, but at\nleast one member must in order to submit the proposal. Phase 1 committee\nformation proposals should follow this template\n[https://gov.optimism.io/t/phase-1-committee-formation-proposal-template/3281]\nand should be posted for feedback 1 week in advance of the start of Voting Cycle\n#5. This proposal type may be added to the operating manual in Season 3.\n\nA maximum of 4 committee formation proposals will be ratified for the duration\nof Season 2. Up to 4 committee proposals (measured by OP voting “Yes”) will be\nimplemented at the start of Season 2 (with Voting Cycle #6) on Sept 8. If more\nthan 4 committees are proposed, the 4 committees with the most votes will be\nimplemented. Votes will be ranked across all categories. We would like to\nencourage a diversity of committee types and recommend delegates only vote “yes”\nfor their top 1-2 committees in each category.\n\nCommittees will operate primarily via social contract and, apart from\ngovernance-approved OP rewards for committee participation, will not directly\nmanage tokens. Instead, committees will vet, research, and discuss proposals,\nthen make highly visible recommendations to non-committee delegates at the time\nof voting. Committee members will receive OP rewards to incentivize this work.\n\nBy approving a committee, delegates are entering a social contract to entrust\nand delegate the bulk of decision-making to the committee. They are expected to\nfollow the recommendation of committees, except in extreme circumstances, such\nas:\n\n * undisclosed conflict-of-interest by the committee\n * perceived corruption or self-dealing\n * suspected operational security compromise/committee accounts hacked\n\nCommittee members may vote against the recommendation of their own committee,\nbut recommendations should include a list of any dissenting committee members\nalong with their reasoning.\n\nDelegates not serving on committees will still be responsible for signing all\ntheir own votes. If delegates vote against the recommendation of the committee,\nthey will be expected to post their reasoning in the forum roundup thread. To\naddress concerns about a drop-off in non-committee delegate participation, the\nOptimism Foundation will track this data and re-evaluate the structure of\ncommittees if we see a meaningful decrease.\n\nWe believe this approach will address the feedback we received in Season 1 in a\ngovernance-minimized way, limiting the complexity introduced into voting or\nproposal processes. The Foundation will continue to handle the administrative\nwork of sending OP to governance-approved grant recipients, as in Season 1.\n\n\nFOUNDATION RECOMMENDATIONS\n\nWhile it’s the Token House’s ultimate decision on what this season’s four\ncommittees should specialize in, our initial recommendation is: 2 DeFi\ncommittees specializing in different focus areas, NFTs, and Tooling. If 4\ncommittees are not necessary, fewer committees may be approved.\n\nWe have updated the cap on the number of committees to accommodate the potential\ncreation of two distinct DeFi committees. In the event that two DeFi committees\nare approved, each committee should handle proposals related to distinct focus\nareas. If >1 DeFi committee proposal is submitted, each committee should specify\nan area of specialization so that there would not be a case where two committees\nare making recommendations on the same proposal. While committees may provide\nrecommendations for proposals that fall outside their domain, only the\nrecommendation of the most directly relevant committee will be surfaced and\nincluded on Snapshot. In the event that there is a proposal that does not fall\nclearly within any of the approved committees, it will be up to the committees\nto decide which committee will provide a recommendation.\n\nThese committees will dissolve at the end of Season 2, and the following\nReflection Period will allow the Token House to renew existing committees or\npropose new ones.\n\nWe put forward the following guidelines for committees:\n\n * Each committee must consist of a Committee Lead and up to 4 other Committee\n   Members. Committee Leads will be responsible for general coordination of the\n   committee and publishing recommendation analyses on behalf of the committee.\n * Committees will self-determine how they reach consensus on the\n   recommendations that are put forward to delegates. This process may be\n   different across committees.\n * Committees will be expected to operate transparently by communicating in open\n   channels and sharing information in public forums. Even if decision-making\n   processes differ, they should communicate similar information in a consistent\n   place.\n * Committees will also be expected to publish a report on their process,\n   learnings, and outcomes at the end of the Season.\n * If something is not clearly outlined in this post or the operating manual,\n   committees have decision making authority over their own operations, and may\n   decide to make exceptions for proposers at their discretion\n\nBased on Reflection Period feedback, we are recommending the following\ncompensation structure. This will be paid out of the Governance Fund in $OP.\n\nEach of the approved committees will receive a base level of rewards in the\namount of $10k equivalent in $OP, to be distributed among committee members.\nThis budget is meant to support 5 committee members, including a committee lead.\nSince workload is unlikely to be standardized across committees, at the end of\nthe season, an additional $10k equivalent per committee in $OP rewards will be\nallocated between committees based on relative workload and contribution during\nthe season. Please note that all committee members that receive compensation\nwill need to be KYC’d. KYC information will be collected privately by the\nOptimism Foundation.\n\nSimilar compensation discussions in other communities frequently gets heated and\nbecomes unproductive. For this reason, and to avoid unnecessary conflict, the\nOptimism Foundation will make the final decision on committee compensation for\nSeason 2. If the community feels that this structure is severely off the mark,\nthey can voice that during this Reflection Period, but the Optimism Foundation\nwill override if discussion becomes unproductive or loses civility. Incentives\nfor non-committee delegates is out of scope for Season 2, but something on the\nroadmap for Season 3.\n\n\nOPEN QUESTIONS\n\nWhat would the community like to see in the proposal template for the creation\nof a new committee? → You can provide feedback on the Phase 1 Committee\nFormation Proposal Template here\n[https://gov.optimism.io/t/phase-1-committee-formation-proposal-template/3281]\n\nWhat is the best way for committees to communicate with each other and with\nnon-committee delegates to maximize transparency? → this is something to be\nspecified in the proposal template\n\nWhat is the best mechanism by which to hold committees accountable at the end\nof, and during, a season?",
  "views": 8539,
  "like_count": 233,
  "word_count": 11029,
  "answer": [
    {
      "content": "On one hand, the equal compensation for committees and decided by OF makes\nsense; on the other the DeFi committee is probably going to end up being\noverworked and unhappy given the proposal distribution we expect. Perhaps there\ncan be more than one DeFi committee, as DeFi itself is a vast space with\nsub-genres with their own experts.",
      "created_at": "2022-08-06T10:24:57.580Z",
      "trust_level": 2,
      "username": "polynya",
      "admin": false,
      "moderator": false,
      "staff": false,
      "like_count": 14
    },
    {
      "content": "\n[https://avatars.discourse-cdn.com/v4/letter/b/b5a626/48.png] ben-chain:\n\n> Based on comparable roles in other Ethereum ecosystems, our initially\n> suggested compensation for committees is 20,000 USD equivalent per month.\n> Similar compensation discussions in other communities frequently gets heated\n> and becomes unproductive. For this reason, and to avoid unnecessary conflict,\n> the Optimism Foundation will make the final decision on committee compensation\n> for Season 2, and will make it equal for all committees in the season.\n\nThis seems reasonable to minimise bikeshedding :smile:\n[https://emoji.discourse-cdn.com/twitter/smile.png?v=12] ! For clarity, it’s\nprobably worth specifying whether committees are expected to have full\ndiscretion over their 20,000 USD monthly budget, and whether this will be paid\nfrom the Governance Fund in $OP.",
      "created_at": "2022-08-05T20:42:31.600Z",
      "trust_level": 2,
      "username": "timbeiko",
      "admin": false,
      "moderator": false,
      "staff": false,
      "like_count": 13
    },
    {
      "content": "> If delegates vote against the recommendation of the committee, they will be\n> expected to post their reasoning in the forum roundup thread.\n\nThis was quite important, one thing i would like to add, when providing your\nreasoning, try to explain by writing few line, focus on “why” part along with\nwhat change you will need to see in their next proposal and any recommendation\nfrom your side.\n\n> What would the community like to see in the proposal template for the creation\n> of a new committee?\n\n * I would like to see their past voting record from season 1, i want to see how\n   they have voted and what was their reasoning for voting against or otherwise.\n   Was their a simple yes/no or silent vote or detailed reasoning was provided.\n * Their interest and projects they have been involved with.\n\n> What is the best way for committees to communicate with each other and with\n> non-committee delegates to maximize transparency?\n\n * A discord channel for initial communication, once a committee is ready with\n   their recommendation, it is mandatory to publish their report on this gov\n   forum.\n\n> What is the best mechanism by which to hold committees accountable at the end\n> of, and during, a season?\n\n * Now that reward is involved, first things comes to mind is some kind of\n   reward ratio accountability. But, Ben, money is relative, most of us are\n   taking part in this gov are motivated individual, believer is this cyber and\n   decentralized space, we are here because we want to see some tangible change\n   in DAO Gov, we believe in our two pillar gov model and we have a chance to be\n   a part of this change with this DAO experiment by continuous iteration.\n\nSo what now ? One thing I like and would love to see is transparency, engagement\nand empathy from these committees. These committee should engage with the\nproposal proposer in timely manner, submits a proper recommendation report and\ndocument their view and opinion in public forum(committee as a whole and as a\nindividual team member.)\n\nConnect these point with some kind of score card/number system and at the end of\nthe season give this as an NFT, consider this a stepping stone of digital gov\nidentity. Take some feedback from Proposal team too, may be from other committee\nas well. Point is keeping the feedback channel open and focus on iteration.\n\nThis gov is a 4 year experiment, imagine if we iterate this just for few\nseasons, we will have an identity, an on-chain verifiable proof of trust. I\nbelieve, this identity can go long way and could be a major factor to keep this\ncommittee accountable.\n\nOhh and we can also connect this score card with reward in long term.",
      "created_at": "2022-08-05T22:09:21.788Z",
      "trust_level": 2,
      "username": "OPUser",
      "admin": false,
      "moderator": false,
      "staff": false,
      "like_count": 13
    },
    {
      "content": "Hey thanks for the post @ben-chain [/u/ben-chain].\n\nI have a few questions.\n\n 1. What is a committee supposed to be? Just a guidance for delegates on what\n    they think should be voted for each type of proposal? So that delegates can\n    have an easy way of voting?\n 2. \n\n\n[https://avatars.discourse-cdn.com/v4/letter/b/b5a626/48.png] ben-chain:\n\n> By approving a committee, delegates are entering a social contract to entrust\n> and delegate the bulk of decision-making to the committee.\n\nSo if a delegate wants to keep voting on their own they should vote against the\ncommittee formations?\n\n\n[https://avatars.discourse-cdn.com/v4/letter/b/b5a626/48.png] ben-chain:\n\n> If delegates vote against the recommendation of the committee, they will be\n> expected to post their reasoning in the forum roundup thread.\n\nThat sounds like a more reasonable approach. Follow the committee unless you\ndon’t want to for some reason in which case you should definitely explain why.\n\n 3. \n\n\n[https://avatars.discourse-cdn.com/v4/letter/b/b5a626/48.png] ben-chain:\n\n> our initially suggested compensation for committees is 20,000 USD equivalent\n> per month.\n\nThis amount is for the entire committee I suppose? So if a committee has 5\nmembers this would be $4k monthly per member, correct?\n\n\nFOR YOUR OPEN QUESTIONS\n\n\n[https://avatars.discourse-cdn.com/v4/letter/b/b5a626/48.png] ben-chain:\n\n> What would the community like to see in the proposal template for the creation\n> of a new committee?\n\nIt should revolve mainly around the subject of the committee and its definition\nin as detailed a way as possible. So say tooling, right? What is that? What is\ntooling in the context of Optimism and this governance forum. Example proposals\nthat would fall under tooling etc.\n\nThen a suggestion on amount of committee members and perhaps even proposal for\nthe members themselves.\n\nState if the committee would be open for “applications” or if the members would\nbe hand-picked beforehand.\n\n\n[https://avatars.discourse-cdn.com/v4/letter/b/b5a626/48.png] ben-chain:\n\n> What is the best way for committees to communicate with each other and with\n> non-committee delegates to maximize transparency?\n\nA publicly viewable but not publicly writable discord channel.\n\n\n[https://avatars.discourse-cdn.com/v4/letter/b/b5a626/48.png] ben-chain:\n\n> What is the best mechanism by which to hold committees accountable at the end\n> of, and during, a season?\n\nDiscord and forum I guess.",
      "created_at": "2022-08-05T22:08:46.008Z",
      "trust_level": 2,
      "username": "lefterisjp",
      "admin": false,
      "moderator": false,
      "staff": false,
      "like_count": 12
    },
    {
      "content": "Lots to take in with this, so apologies in advance if this is a little bit\ndisjointed, just wanted to put some initial thoughts out there.\n\nFirstly, if the goal is to reduce delegate workload then having committees seems\nfantastically well aligned to that! Rather than deep diving into every proposal,\nthose in a committee will only need to go deep into one segment of the\nproposals, and those not in a committee will have, it seems very little to do.\n\nAs everyone’s workload is going to be reducing the introduction of compensation\nseems interesting. Obviously no one would say no to getting paid, but I wonder\nhow necessary it is to set this before we know what the level of workload will\nbe. Thinking about your 3rd question of accountability, might it make more sense\nto allocate funds to the different teams at the end of the season? I’m thinking\nin particular that it might be that, for example, the DeFi committee has been\ngoing flat out with dozens and dozens of proposals to work through, while the\nTooling team had a whole 2 weeks off with nothing that fitted into their\nspecialism for a voting round?\n\nAlso worth considering is that there might be something of a centralization risk\naround giving the non-committee members too little to do. If delegates feel like\nthey are effectively just rubber stamping the decisions of the committees then\nit seems likely we will see a drop off of engagement. If this occurs and we lose\nparticipants then next season there will be less people to chose committees from\nand it could end up ossifying into the same few people deciding everything. I\ndon’t think that solving this is complex however, maybe just ensuring that there\nis a way for people in other committees (or not in a committee) to contribute to\nthe discussion if they have some insight into a particular proposal.\n\nWith regards to the communication channels, I quite like the idea of having them\nhere so that they are in the same place as proposals, though I don’t know if\nit’s possible to create threads which only allow write access for certain\npeople. If no the Discord channels like we have for ‘delegate-discussion’ would\nprobably be fine, I guess that gives the added advantage of ‘threads’ allowing\nfor some level of organization of the conversations.\n\nI’ll come back later with thoughts on the committee proposal templates format.",
      "created_at": "2022-08-06T10:48:26.526Z",
      "trust_level": 2,
      "username": "MinimalGravitas",
      "admin": false,
      "moderator": false,
      "staff": false,
      "like_count": 8
    }
  ],
  "created_at": "2022-08-05T19:52:53.895Z"
}