{
  "title": "Optimism Community Call Recaps & Recordings Thread",
  "content": "Hi Optimists!\n\nI am creating this thread as a central location to contain all of our community\ncall recordings and recaps. The goal is for people to be able to review past\ncommunity calls more easily. And see the things we’ve discussed over time.\n\nFrom this point on, check here to find all recap/recordings!\n\nMichael :slight_smile:\n[https://emoji.discourse-cdn.com/twitter/slight_smile.png?v=12] :red_circle:\n[https://emoji.discourse-cdn.com/twitter/red_circle.png?v=12] :sparkles:\n[https://emoji.discourse-cdn.com/twitter/sparkles.png?v=12]",
  "views": 5269,
  "like_count": 164,
  "word_count": 17117,
  "answer": [
    {
      "content": "COMMUNITY CALL #4: SEPTEMBER 13, 2022\n\nWe had an amazing community call today with A LOT of points discussed. I’ve\nbroken down those points into a recap below. A recording of the meeting can be\nfound [here\n](https://drive.google.com/file/d/198n9c1m6uEemAuH9vp-hE2gQu-CBVOND/view?usp=sharing).\n\nOn the Gnosis Safe bug of the last voting cycle, moving forward:\n\n * OP Foundation is setting the precedent to remedy voting issues moving forward\n   IF there is a bug that is objective and verifiable. [Ben]\n   * E.g: an an on-chain recorded vote that doesn’t propagate to snapshot\n   * Would not include a discord message saying “I can’t vote”\n\nOn the topic of heated/contentious debate:\n\n * We ALL want OP Governance to be a place with the best vibes/culture\n * Todo: Can we think of a short pithy motto to guide the culture within\n   governance?\n * Link to forum post for this here:\n\nOn the split in proposals between DeFi committees A and C:\n\n * DeFi committees will first split all proposals in half alphabetically, then\n   “flip a coin” (future block hash?) to decide which proposals go to which\n   committee.\n\nCommittee Recomendations are due at the latest 3 days after voting period\nstarts, September 24th for this cycle\n\nOn structure of voting cycles:\n\n * Delegates should feel free to give feedback on committees in the “community\n   feedback” first week. This was split this way to give delegates a break.\n * There is no hard cutoff for submitting proposals for feedback, but ideal is\n   submissions before the full week of delegate feedback.\n\nOn finding the community call meeting:\n\n * Call was hard to find, some people ended up in the wrong zoom link\n * Call can be added to a discord event & google calendar\n\nOn direction of future grants:\n\n * Shoutout to @jackanorak [/u/jackanorak] on the Season 1 retrospective/stats\n   breakdown (here\n   [https://gov.optimism.io/t/op-season-1-proposals-retrospective/3417])\n * We’d like to see the “dev costs” bar go up [Ben]\n * Some confusion on whether or not developer grants should be included\n * Yes, developer grants should be acceptable for token house funding\n   * Goals were outlined in committee next steps post (here\n     [https://gov.optimism.io/t/committees-next-steps-for-season-2/3436]):\n     * Target L1 applications with product market fit\n     * Grow population of value aligned builders\n * There is a difference between operating costs (not good for grants) and\n   funding new infrastructure (good for grants) [Jing]\n * We want to see more building and experimentation taking place on Optimism!\n * Question for delegates: Are you happy with current grants and funding\n   direction, or are there areas for innovation that we could be doing more\n   with?\n\nAMAZING closing remarks from Jing:\n\n> “Why did you get into crypto? We are all building together this new ecosystem\n> that we ourselves should enjoy being a part of. What kind of application? What\n> kind of builders? What is the culture of that ecosystem? Whatever that is,\n> that’s what we should be putting incentives towards creating.”",
      "created_at": "2023-10-10T02:15:49.430Z",
      "trust_level": 3,
      "username": "Michael",
      "admin": false,
      "moderator": false,
      "staff": false,
      "like_count": 6
    },
    {
      "content": "COMMUNITY CALL #5: SEPTEMBER 27, 2022\n\nGreat and productive call this week as usual! A recording of the meeting can be\nfound here\n[https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Uuc1YLRBWzkB3drlUpES0gytABnFdMpk/view?usp=sharing],\nand the recap is below:\n\nMessari put out a great post on OP governance here\n[https://messari.io/report/state-of-optimism-governance].\n\nOn new Optimism Governance Docs\n[https://community.optimism.io/docs/governance/]:\n\n * Adding a flow chart might be a good idea. What are some examples of flow\n   charts / guides in other governance communities?\n\nOn confusion about which proposals are eligble for review by delegates:\n\n * We will have a Voting Round 7 Review Roundup thread where proposals will need\n   to be posted at the end of the review week.\n\nOn accountability for Season 1 grants that have not yet been deployed:\n\n * We want some kind of accountability/pressure coming from the community!\n * One future option is an accountability committee, but this would need some\n   more discussion/thought.\n * Non-recommendation based committees are a great topic for season 2 reflection\n   period\n * Traver from Messari mentioned that they in the early stages of an on-chain\n   accountability system for grants\n * For now, a public thread tracking these things and applying some friendly\n   community pressure may be the best route\n * To do: Make post on this topic.\n\nOn delegate approvals for projects:\n\n * Approvals are not necessarily an endorsement\n * We want to keep the overhead low for these, so a simple “I approve” is good\n   enough, no reasoning necessary\n\nOn proposals not getting enough early feedback (this took up the bulk of the\ndiscussion):\n\n * Resolutions and continued discussion can be found on this thread: Update to\n   Committee Operations\n   [https://gov.optimism.io/t/update-to-committee-operations/3571]\n * @Gonna.eth [/u/gonna.eth] suggested flipping the delegate approval and\n   feedback phases so that delegate approval would be the last step\n * Proposers should know which committee will be reviewing their proposal at the\n   feedback phase to prevent them from implementing unrelated feedback and then\n   still getting rejected\n * Committee proposal assignments happen only a few days before the proposals\n   goes to snapshot which made it difficult to run a feedback process. It would\n   be useful to have more clarity earlier on assignments. - @linda [/u/linda]\n * This should happen on this first Thursday of delegate review week, 10 days\n   before assignments are due and 7 days before snapshot. It may not have\n   happened this round but should for the next one. -@lavande [/u/lavande]\n * Proposals submitters should have a clear understanding that this is a rolling\n   process, and all is not lost if they don’t get their proposal through in a\n   specific voting round.\n * The stakes are actually quite high and it takes a lot for a vote to go\n   against a committees recommendation. - @jackanorak [/u/jackanorak]\n * Important for committees to raise concerns in the feedback stage of the\n   process. - @alexcutlerdoteth [/u/alexcutlerdoteth]\n * While we may not need hard guidelines to start, committees should be\n   generally encouraged to actively participate in the feedback phase of\n   proposals they will eventually review\n * Should committee recommendations be due at the start of snapshot, or three\n   days after like it is now?\n\nOn the topic of guidance on funding development through a proposal:\n\n * Stay tuned, this is being worked on by the foundation! - @ben-chain\n   [/u/ben-chain]\n\nStill looking for a host for next community call! Feel free to put your name on\nthe sheet here\n[https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1-r1X2gNtP4UqbnJ9ELlHf0lVHeXdXUy5_JMAxP9lERs/edit?usp=sharing].\n\nLet’s meet up at Devcon! Coordination on this thread: Devcon Community\nGovernance Meetup!\n[https://gov.optimism.io/t/devcon-community-governance-meetup/3573]",
      "created_at": "2023-10-10T02:17:27.913Z",
      "trust_level": 3,
      "username": "Michael",
      "admin": false,
      "moderator": false,
      "staff": false,
      "like_count": 4
    },
    {
      "content": "COMMUNITY CALL #8: NOVEMBER 8, 2022\n\nGreat discussion today. Here is the recording of the call: November 8 2022\ncommunity call 8.mp4 - Google Drive\n[https://drive.google.com/file/d/1qGhSZB0cZ148liIIoqWUf6bs27pjG80O/view?usp=share_link].\n\nNotes from the call:\n\n * Lots of new governance posts dropped! Best place to find them is here: Guide\n   to Season 3: Course Correcting\n   [https://gov.optimism.io/t/guide-to-season-3-course-correcting/3942]\n * We will be distributing committee funds using a hybrid approach, 1/2\n   distributed equally and 1/2 in proportion to the # of proposals reviewed.\n * In response to Messari asking about the appropriate place for the proposal,\n   look at the new posts & we may have some kind of “service provider” proposal\n   type in the future.\n * Lots of discussion happening already in this thread\n   [https://gov.optimism.io/t/season-2-feedback-thread/3818/34] but we discussed\n   improvements on committees, participation, and effectiveness of grants\n * Idea: have a delegate sponsor a proposal\n * Proposers getting feedback from multiple committees was confusing\n * Idea: Maybe have a single bigger committee\n * Idea: Don’t limit the # of committees, accept all who pass.\n * Committees did seem help out delegates as far as effort to vote goes.\n * Idea: send survey to proposers to see how the process was for them.\n * Idea: have scaling vote threshold for amount of OP requested. For example,\n   4mil OP grants should have more buyin than 100k grants\n * General consensus that we would love having the committee recommendations\n   directly in the snapshot description for voting.",
      "created_at": "2023-10-10T02:19:22.306Z",
      "trust_level": 3,
      "username": "Michael",
      "admin": false,
      "moderator": false,
      "staff": false,
      "like_count": 2
    },
    {
      "content": "COMMUNITY CALL #9: NOVEMBER 22, 2022\n\nThe slides for the call can be found here\n[https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1qGFHILh4b6Tb9i81_eLvgT_5Dvxr3T9NIT47lsU5Wq8/edit?usp=sharing].\nThe recording can be found here\n[https://drive.google.com/file/d/1MwWHAxl-XIm8slHz5KArcPlHiFoxAaDh/view?usp=share_link].\n\nSummary of discussion:\n\n * More information coming on Grants Council Lead application and on Grants\n   Council Membership Nomination soon.\n * This information will be available before the end of voting cycle #9a so that\n   people will be able to work on them before the voting ends for the grants\n   council proposal.\n * RE: Code of Conduct. Offboarding will start out as a one-season suspension.\n * It might be time to make a post on our current point on the path towards\n   decentralization (@bobby [/u/bobby]).\n * The proposed grants committee will technically not be distributing funds\n   themselves, but instead make recommendations to the foundation who will\n   distribute the funds.\n * Suggestion that one of the Optimism “nerds” should be on the grants council.\n   Response that we’d love to see them nominated.\n * Idea floated to distributed some voting power to top NFT projects in addition\n   to protocols.\n * RE: Role of delegates if grants council is passed. Non-council delegates will\n   provide oversite and accountability to council and grant recipients. In\n   future seasons, there will be important non-council related roles as well.\n   More info coming soon. As far as this season goes, there will be other\n   proposal types to be voted on such as protocol upgrades.\n * No requirements to be nominated to the grants council, other than one spot\n   reserved on each sub-committee for a previous committee member.\n * Details coming on elected committee member roles. Grants committee lead is\n   through an application process with the foundation (not an elected role).\n * If grants council proposal is rejected, voting cycle 9b will likely be for\n   alternative proposals.\n * Protocol Delegation program would last for 2 seasons total.\n * Discussion on accountability of foundation given that votes are non-binding.\n   What happens if a vote to remove a director goes through? Foundation will\n   honor votes to remove a director. In cases of a governance attack, this\n   should be obvious and the foundation has the authority to protect against\n   this. In general, we’d like to see more documentation around the decision\n   making process of the Optimism Foundation Board.",
      "created_at": "2023-10-10T02:20:51.303Z",
      "trust_level": 3,
      "username": "Michael",
      "admin": false,
      "moderator": false,
      "staff": false,
      "like_count": 2
    },
    {
      "content": "COMMUNITY CALL #11: DECEMBER 20TH, 2022\n\nCheck out the call recording here\n[https://drive.google.com/file/d/1iQRwqi1kqTFduSIdUCcHIfWI0OI8qfJL/view?usp=sharing].\n\nIt was a great call, mostly focused around what we’d like to see for season 3\ngrants.\n\nTopics discussed:\n\n * Season 3 grants\n   * We might want to add more context on the grant proposal template\n   * The successful new proposals will likely look different than the proposals\n     in previous seasons\n   * This could definitely be something that the elected grants council puts out\n   * Lets see some education grants! Maybe a technical content competition\n   * Ideally the grants council will take the lead on this by publishing the\n     types of grants that they’d like to see\n   * One solution for them is to publish this and then have a community\n     discussion call for feedback\n * Grant council\n   * Breakdown between Builders vs Growth Experiments subcommittees\n   * Do the stated for subcommittees goals make sense?\n   * Budget is split the way it is because we are expecting builder grants to\n     ramp up over time, eventually they should converge\n * Accountability thread\n   * Anyone can contribute to the OP grants through Season 2: where has the OP\n     gone?\n     [https://gov.optimism.io/t/op-grants-through-season-2-where-has-the-op-gone/4025]\n     thread\n   * Could even turn this into a competition.\n * RetroPGF\n   * Some Q&A here on some choices that were made and how it works\n\nIf I missed anything or if if you post any follow-up threads, feel free to post\nit below!\n\nAlso, those who attended to call recieved a POAP at the end thanks to @Gonna.eth\n[/u/gonna.eth]! Make sure to join next call if you want one. :slight_smile:\n[https://emoji.discourse-cdn.com/twitter/slight_smile.png?v=12]",
      "created_at": "2023-10-10T02:28:27.517Z",
      "trust_level": 3,
      "username": "Michael",
      "admin": false,
      "moderator": false,
      "staff": false,
      "like_count": 2
    }
  ],
  "created_at": "2023-10-10T02:10:24.042Z"
}