{
  "title": "L2BEAT - Delegate Communication Thread",
  "content": "Hey!\n\nIn the previous voting seasons, we were one of the most prominent governance\ndelegators, engaging in various discussions and leading Tooling Governance\nCommittee\n[https://gov.optimism.io/t/draft-s02-committee-proposal-tooling-governance-committee/3333].\n\nToday I would like to announce that we are shifting gears with the onboarding of\nKrzysztof Urbanski [https://gov.optimism.io/u/kaereste]. Krzysztof has been\nassisting me during the last few weeks and, from now will replace me in the role\nof L2BEAT Governance Delegate.\n\nPersonally, I am very excited about this change because @kaereste [/u/kaereste]\nis a perfect candidate for this role, with extensive knowledge of both the\ncrypto landscape and various grant programs.",
  "views": 3242,
  "like_count": 46,
  "word_count": 4905,
  "answer": [
    {
      "content": "First of all, I’m super excited to be involved in the Optimism Governance as\nL2BEAT Governance Delegate. Some of you already know me, those that don’t might\nwant to check my official commitment\n[https://gov.optimism.io/t/delegate-commitments/235/147].\n\nI’m happy that as L2BEAT we are able to dedicate time and resources to make sure\nthat our involvement in governance activities is more meaningful. I hope that we\nwill be able to help ensure that the core values that brought us here will be\nreflected in future discussions and decision-making.\n\nIn the near future, we will be publishing our policy on what exactly we want to\nachieve as governance participants. I will be also reporting regularly on our\ninvolvement in public debates and governance processes.\n\nIf anybody is interested in talking to me, my DMs are open here, on discord\n(krst#6650), on telegram (@kaereste [/u/kaereste]) or on Twitter (@kaereste\n[/u/kaereste]).",
      "created_at": "2022-12-08T15:26:11.145Z",
      "trust_level": 2,
      "username": "kaereste",
      "admin": false,
      "moderator": false,
      "staff": false,
      "like_count": 10
    },
    {
      "content": "We have recently voted in three governance issues, below we present what have we\nvoted for with some explanation.\n\nhttps://snapshot.org/#/opcollective.eth/proposal/0x37fc8a6ae60cff2e4e72fe9c0567f739bb9a78262c2ada236892fcbc7af2c32d\n[https://snapshot.org/#/opcollective.eth/proposal/0x37fc8a6ae60cff2e4e72fe9c0567f739bb9a78262c2ada236892fcbc7af2c32d]\n\nSpecial Voting Cycle #9a: Grants Council\n\nWe have voted for this proposal. Being involved in the grants processes in\nprevious seasons, we see a big need for a better structured processes both for\ngrantees and for delegates. We do have some comments that we shared during the\nDelegate Call (and we summarize them below), yet we still think that this\nproposal should be accepted and the details may be clarified during the upcoming\nSeason 3.\n\nBelow are some of our comments on the proposal:\n\n * the budget for Growth Experiments Sub-Committee is ~5x bigger than the budget\n   for Builders Sub-Committee. Even though we understand the rationale behind\n   this, and we agree that having more users in the ecosystem benefits the\n   builders in the first place, still we think in the future rounds it should be\n   more balanced\n * we would like to see a broader OP strategy towards grants distribution\n   programme so that most of the grants funded act together for the growth of OP\n   ecosystem. In previous seasons we saw many proposals that were made by great\n   teams and made a lot of sense individually, but we were not sure how they\n   composed altogether into something bigger. That’s not necessarily bad, and it\n   was probably the best way to bootstrap the whole programme, but as we already\n   have some insights and experience, we might want to think about the bigger\n   picture already. We’re seeing a good start with the planned RFPs created by\n   sub-committees.\n * with the grants council limited to very few people and no token holders\n   voting we are afraid that there might be less public discussion regarding the\n   proposals and their goals, we feel that sub committees should be encouraged\n   to spark public discussion and to gather feedback from the community\n   regarding the proposals (for example by organising AMA sessions with\n   proposers, or public calls where each proposal is being discussed). We will\n   be encouraging for such activities anyway.\n * we feel that additional resources should be allocated towards preparing\n   better framework for grants applications and monitoring already funded\n   projects’ progress. We should have more resources towards how potential\n   grantees should prepare their proposals and report on them later on.\n\nHowever, we think that the Grants Council is a good step forward towards\nachieving better grants distribution, thus we are voting for this proposal and\nwe will plan to be involved in the future works, we are also planning to\nself-nominate ourselves to the grants council…\n\nhttps://snapshot.org/#/opcollective.eth/proposal/0x3a1f9a30c47d6060f3b732404f3a6b2ceba3da07be0505ef0f93b6dab7fa3185\n[https://snapshot.org/#/opcollective.eth/proposal/0x3a1f9a30c47d6060f3b732404f3a6b2ceba3da07be0505ef0f93b6dab7fa3185]\n\nSpecial Voting Cycle #9a: Protocol Delegation Program\n\nWe have voted for. We agree with the goals of the proposal and the proposed\napproach. We believe that having protocols with a lot of stake in Optimism more\ninvolved in the governance processes can only benefit those processes. We do\nshare some concerns (that were already stated in the thread and during the\nDelegate Call by others) regarding the bonus for OP native protocols and those\nthat already have an active delegate. But the reasoning behind those two bonues\nseems fair and it’s worth trying it out in the field and potentially adapting\nthose parameters after first season. We’re looking forward to seeing PDP in\naction!\n\nand finally:\n\nhttps://snapshot.org/#/opcollective.eth/proposal/0x22d4c3ab56832de58c1774d1a0aeb61ba6dde8b16c0f8382f85d8935f3ee1f11\n[https://snapshot.org/#/opcollective.eth/proposal/0x22d4c3ab56832de58c1774d1a0aeb61ba6dde8b16c0f8382f85d8935f3ee1f11]\n\nBadgeholder Nomination Voting\n\nWe have voted for Katie Garcia, Linda Xie, Bobbay, Lefteris, Polynya, Scott\nMoore and Joxes from DeFi LATAM. We have very good experience working with them\npreviously and we are confident that they will make perfect Citizen House\nmembers.",
      "created_at": "2022-12-21T15:32:20.065Z",
      "trust_level": 2,
      "username": "kaereste",
      "admin": false,
      "moderator": false,
      "staff": false,
      "like_count": 8
    },
    {
      "content": "To promote transparency and communication as delegates, we’ll be regularly\nupdating the below thread with our actions in the governance of Optimism. Our\nupdates will include how we voted for different proposals and our rationale.\n\n\nUPDATE #1\n\n\nVOTING\n\nIntent 2 Budget Proposal 2\n[https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/46755965320953291432113738397437466520155684451527981335363452666080752126186]\n- Voted Abstain\n\nAs L2Beat, we had to abstain from voting as @kaereste [/u/kaereste] is a member\nof the Grants Council.\n\n\nL2BEAT’S OPTIMISM OFFICE HOURS\n\nTo further our communication with our constituents and any interested party in\nthe community, we’ll be hosting recurring Office Hours on Google Meets.\n\nThe office hours will be held every Teusday at 3pm UTC/ 11am EST\n\nDuring the Office Hours, you will be able to reach L2Beat’s governance team,\nwhich consists of kaereste [https://twitter.com/kaereste] (Krzysztof Urbanski)\nand Sinkas [https://twitter.com/Sinkas_] (Anastassis Oikonomopoulos) and discuss\nour activity as delegates.\n\nThe purpose of the office hours is to gather feedback from the people who have\ndelegated to us, answer any questions in regards to our voting activities and\nrationale, and collect input on things you’d like us engage in discussions\nabout.\n\nYou can add the L2Beat Governance Calendar in your Google Calendar\n[https://calendar.google.com/calendar/u/0?cid=Y18wNzQ1ODJiMWJkNWE2NTVjOGNkMmQ2YjNhYjliZDQ0NzcxY2U3MDgyYzI2Zjk0MmQ1MzM5ZWUxZDllN2M4YzA0QGdyb3VwLmNhbGVuZGFyLmdvb2dsZS5jb20]\nto find the respective Google Meets links for every call and to easily keep\ntrack of the Office Hours, as well as other important calls and events (e.g.\nvoting deadlines) relevant to Optimism that L2Beat governance team will be\nattending or hosting.",
      "created_at": "2023-08-23T00:49:51.318Z",
      "trust_level": 2,
      "username": "kaereste",
      "admin": false,
      "moderator": false,
      "staff": false,
      "like_count": 4
    },
    {
      "content": "UPDATE #2\n\n\nVOTING\n\n\nANTICAPTURE COMMISSION\n[https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/22387138384033903985192420283570655912990907953544385753324581204637906644383]\n- VOTED FOR\n\nAfter having our concerns\n[https://gov.optimism.io/t/anticapture-commission/6889/21] addressed, we voted\nin favour of the proposal and we committed ourselves\n[https://gov.optimism.io/t/anticapture-commission/6889/26] to actively\nparticipate in the commission given it’s approved.\n\n\nCODE OF CONDUCT VIOLATION\n[https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/25353629475948605098820168047140307200589226219380649297323431722674892706917]\n- VOTED AGAINST\n\nGiven we did not have enough information to make a fully informed decision, we\ndecided to vote against\n[https://gov.optimism.io/t/code-of-conduct-violation-carlos-melgar/6882/38].\n\n\nCODE OF CONDUCT COUNCIL BUDGET\n[https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/26993004599223263087505603454119723751877285713239446072681254755783718227511]\n- VOTED FOR\n\nEven though we are a bit sceptical about the effectiveness of the proposes code\nof conduct council, the recent CoC violation vote (see above) made it clear that\nmobilising the entire DAO for such cases isn’t a sustainable approach. Given\nthat, we decided to vote in favour of the CoC Council\n[https://gov.optimism.io/t/code-of-conduct-councils/6888/11].\n\nWe also voted in the subsequent CoC Council’s member elections\n[https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/102821998933460159156263544808281872605936639206851804749751748763651967264110]\n\n\nSECURITY COUNCIL VOTE #1\n[https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/27439950952007920118525230291344523079212068327713298769307857575418374325849]\n- VOTED FOR\n\nThe implementation of a security council is one of the most important steps\ntowards decentralisation and therefore we voted in favour of its establishment\n[https://gov.optimism.io/t/security-council-vote-1-change-to-security-model/6886/14].\n\n\nDEVELOPER ADVISORY BOARD\n[https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/67269789039629895178640755758170247888863792004069768037736283616310331965838]\n- VOTED FOR\n\nWe voted in favour [https://gov.optimism.io/t/developer-advisory-board/6892/11]\nof the proposal as we’re fully onboard with the idea of having a board with the\nnecessary knowledge to assess proposals for their technical merit and assist\ndelegates with their decision-making in the process.\n\n\nRATIFY DEVELOPER ADVISORY BOARD MEMBERS\n[https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/95102633290576253416299445955061077431090693890673037767791097228222587378331]\n\nSince we voted in favour of the developer advisory board, we also voted to\nratify its initial members who were appointed by the Foundation. Although we’re\nnot familiar with all the appointed members, we have confidence in the\nFoundation’s choices.\n\n\nGRANTS COUNCIL OPERATING BUDGET\n[https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/47864371633107534187617995773541299064963460661119440983190542488743950169122]\n- VOTED FOR\n\nWe believe the grants council proved to be effective in Season 4 and we are in\nfavour of its continuation\n[https://gov.optimism.io/t/season-5-grants-council-operating-budget/6941/18]. We\nsubsequently voted to elect reviewers for each of the 3 categories.\n\n * Builders\n   [https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/13644637236772462780287582686131348226526824657027343360896627559283471469688]\n * Growth Experiments\n   [https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/87355419461675705865096288750937924893466943101654806912041265394266455745819]\n * Milestones and Metrics\n   [https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/96868135958111078064987938855232246504506994378309573614627090826820561655088]\n\n\nSEASON 5 INTENT BUDGETS\n[https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/11595556248137084019024264942104169821784001997050285438055123196153848845549]\n- VOTED FOR\n\nAfter seeing the reasoning behind S5 intent budgets and how the data from the\nrespective S4 budgets were taken into account when determining the amounts, we\nvoted in favour\n[https://gov.optimism.io/t/season-5-intents-budget-proposal/7040/26] of the\nproposal.\n\n\nRATIFICATION OF LAW OF CHAINS\n[https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/112047914448178129124907599845371359974256142096707624346739203514792263033877]\n- VOTED FOR\n\nAfter participating in the discussion around Law of Chains and having our\nquestions addressed, we voted in favour\n[https://gov.optimism.io/t/ratification-law-of-chains/7049/5] of ratifying it.\n\n\nCHAIN DELEGATION PROGRAM\n[https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/23645858735980247449510302520189443998369792603230659191221949690963680987113]\n- VOTED FOR\n\nAlthough we have some reservations about chains being delegated tokens rather\nthan obtaining them directly, we believe this program to be a good step forward\nto getting these chains involved in governance. As a result of this thinking, we\nvoted in favour [https://gov.optimism.io/t/chain-delegation-program/6896/9] of\nthe program.\n\n\nRATIFY SECURITY COUNCIL MEMBERS\n[https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/85591583404433237270543189567126336043697987369929953414380041066767718361144]\n- VOTED ABSTAIN\n\nL2BEAT is appointed as a member of the security council for the second cohort\nand as such we had to abstain from voting.\n[https://gov.optimism.io/t/security-council-vote-2-initial-member-ratification/7118/16]\n\n\nUPGRADE #2: CANYON PROTOCOL UPGRADE\n[https://vote.optimism.io/proposals/20327152654308054166942093105443920402082671769027198649343468266910325783863]\n- VOTED FOR\n\nWe voted in favour\n[https://gov.optimism.io/t/final-upgrade-proposal-2-canyon-network-upgrade/7088/12]\nof the proposed upgrade since we didn’t see anything wrong with it.\n\n\nDISCUSSIONS\n\n\nLAW OF CHAINS V0.1: FULL DRAFT\n[https://gov.optimism.io/t/law-of-chains-v0-1-full-draft/6514]\n\nWhen the Foundation introduced the first draft of the Law of Chains, we had some\nquestions/concerns regarding some points that were rather vague. We raised those\npoints in the forums\n[https://gov.optimism.io/t/law-of-chains-v0-1-full-draft/6514/16] and also\ninvited members of the collective to our office hours to discuss the Law of\nChains further.\n\n\nWELCOMING BASE TO OPTIMISM GOVERNANCE\n[https://gov.optimism.io/t/welcoming-base-to-optimism-governance/6689/1]\n\nOnboarding Base is a great step towards the vision of the Superchain and it was\ndefinitely exciting to see the announcement. However, we also understand that\nsince it’s the first chain to be onboarded, we must be careful about the\nprecedent we set. To that end, we raised some questions\n[https://gov.optimism.io/t/welcoming-base-to-optimism-governance/6689/2] under\nthe original post.\n\n\nHOW BASE WILL PARTICIPATE IN OPTIMISM GOVERNANCE\n[https://gov.optimism.io/t/how-base-will-participate-in-optimism-governance/6690]\n\nExtending on the topic ahead, we also directed some questions to Base\n[https://gov.optimism.io/t/how-base-will-participate-in-optimism-governance/6690/11]\nabout how they’ll participate in Optimism’s governance.\n\n\nANTICAPTURE COMMISSION [https://gov.optimism.io/t/anticapture-commission/6889]\n\nWe participated in the discussion\n[https://gov.optimism.io/t/anticapture-commission/6889/21] around the\nAnticapture Commission after it was first introduced and before the relevant\nvoting cycle.\n\n\nCOLLECTING RFP INPUT [https://gov.optimism.io/t/collecting-rfp-input/7158]\n\nIn Season 5, top 100 delegates will be able to submit RFPs which anyone can\napply to. As L2BEAT, we have some ideas in terms of things we’d like to see\naccomplished, but we’d like to involve the community as much as possible. To\nthat end, we’ve invited the community to our office hours (every Tuesday at 4pm\nUTC / 11am EST - call link\n[https://www.notion.so/Optimism-Collect-RFP-Input-613869ad85a248098885588cbb07fb24?pvs=21])\nto collect input on the RFPs",
      "created_at": "2023-12-18T13:22:38.509Z",
      "trust_level": 2,
      "username": "Sinkas",
      "admin": false,
      "moderator": false,
      "staff": false,
      "like_count": 4
    },
    {
      "content": "The following reflects the views of L2BEAT’s governance team, composed of\n@kaereste [/u/kaereste] and @Sinkas [/u/sinkas], and it’s based on the combined\nresearch, fact-checking, and ideation of the two.\n\nAfter carefully considering all Mission Requests under each intent, we decided\nto vote in favor of the ones listed below. We chose the Mission Requests based\non how aligned they were with their respective intent, how big of an impact we\nbelieved they could have, and how much their requested budget was.\n\nIntent 1\n\nRequest 1: Cross-Chain Voting\nRequest 3: Grants Claiming Tools\nRequest 4: Analysis of Grant Programs\nRequest 6: Farcaster Social Graph\nRequest 7: Develop non-technical solutions for increasing both voter and token\nparticipation in the DAO\nRequest 9: Create and Distribute Videos about Optimism Collective Governance\nRequest 10: Integration of Optimism Gov and RPGF into University Courses\n\nIntent 3A\n\nRequest 1A: Optimism Dominance in Yield-Bearing Assets 1\nRequest 1B: Optimism Dominance in Yield-Bearing Assets 2\nRequest 1C: Optimism Dominance in Yield-Bearing Assets 3\nRequest 1D: Optimism Dominance in Yield-Bearing Assets 4\nRequest 2: Subsidized Audit Grants\nRequest 3: Developer Tools\nRequest 5: Microgrants for Experimental Projects\nRequest 10: Develop Onchain Social Games that attract Builders to Optimism - v2\nRequest 13: Support on-chain games close to launch\nRequest 14: Optimism as Venture Studio\nRequest 15: Gaming Infra in the Superchain\nRequest 16: Marquee Governance Hackathon\nRequest 17: Accelerating Game Development in the Superchain\n\nIntent 3B\n\nRequest 1: Grow Application Developers Across the Superchain\n\n\nFEEDBACK FOR NEXT SEASON\n\nOne thing that we’d like to take the opportunity to express is that we felt\nthere wasn’t enough time between the submission of Mission Request proposals and\ntheir vote. Reviewing 33 Mission Requests, providing feedback, and deciding how\nto vote all within a week is very demanding and time pressuring.\n\nWe would suggest that there’s at least a week of cut-off between the deadline\nfor Mission Request submissions and the beginning of the vote reserved just for\ncomments and changes so there’s enough time for delegates to review everything\nwithout sacrificing diligence.",
      "created_at": "2024-07-18T17:06:08.584Z",
      "trust_level": 2,
      "username": "kaereste",
      "admin": false,
      "moderator": false,
      "staff": false,
      "like_count": 4
    }
  ],
  "created_at": "2022-12-08T13:57:09.437Z"
}